Voice docs updates (#35885)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/voice_control/best_practices.markdown

---
title: Best practices with Assist
related:
  - docs: /voice_control/android
    title: Assist on Android devices
  - docs: /voice_control/apple
    title: Assist on Apple devices
  - docs: /voice_control/thirteen-usd-voice-remote/
    title: Build a 13$ voice remote using an ESPHome device
  - docs: /voice_control/builtin_sentences
    title: Sentences starter kit
  - url: https://www.nabucasa.com/config/
    title: Home Assistant Cloud
---

Using Assist consists of saying supported commands while targeting exposed devices and entities.

Let's go through these two key concepts

You control what data Assist has access to, and what it can control.
Every entity in Home Assistant can be exposed or not to Assist.
Learn how in [Exposing your entities to Assist](https://www.home-assistant.io/voice_control/voice_remote_expose_devices/) 

On top of exposing the needed data, it is worth noting that you will most likely target entities through areas and floors, like:

- *Turn off the office lights*

So make sure your devices and entities are correctly assigned to areas, and your areas are correctly assigned to floors.

> Learn how [here](https://www.home-assistant.io/voice_control/assign_areas_floors/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how [here](/voice_control/assign_areas_floors/).
```

Reviewer 2: Not resolved yet, there are a lot more places where the full url is used and should be changed.

Author: you are totally right, fixing it

---
title: Best practices with Assist
related:
  - docs: /voice_control/android
    title: Assist on Android devices
  - docs: /voice_control/apple
    title: Assist on Apple devices
  - docs: /voice_control/thirteen-usd-voice-remote/
    title: Build a 13$ voice remote using an ESPHome device
  - docs: /voice_control/builtin_sentences
    title: Sentences starter kit
  - url: https://www.nabucasa.com/config/
    title: Home Assistant Cloud
---
There are a few things you should do to get the most out of the voice assistant experience.

Using Assist consists of saying supported commands while targeting exposed devices and entities. So essentially:

- You control what data Assist has access to, and what it can control.
- Every entity in Home Assistant can be exposed or not to Assist.

Some best practices we recommend to have an efficient setup are:

### Expose (the minimum) entities

Learn how in [Exposing your entities to Assist](/voice_control/voice_remote_expose_devices/).

> It might be tempting to expose all entities to Assist, but doing so will come with a performance penalty. The more entity names and aliases the parser will have to go through, the more time it will spend matching. And if you’re using a LLM-based conversation agent, it will incur a higher cost per request, due to the larger context size. So **we recommend you expose the bare minimum** you know you are going to use with voice assistants.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It might be tempting to expose all entities to Assist, but doing so will come with a performance penalty. The more entity names and aliases the parser will have to go through, the more time it will spend matching. And if you’re using a LLM-based conversation agent, it will incur a higher cost per request, due to the larger context size. Only expose the bare minimum you know you are going to use with voice assistants.
```
- bold is used to markup UI elements. If text highlighting is needed, italics could be used.

> As such, you should not expose anything by default, and then expose the entities you know you will control or query through voice. You’re probably never going to ask if there’s any update available for the MQTT add-on, so there’s no point in exposing the `update` entity to Assist.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Could this bit be removed? The section above already clearly states that you should only expose the bare minimum, and why. The MQTT bit got me wondering, what?? What has MQTT got to do with it? And I had to go back and read again.

### Check names and create aliases 

> Assist relies heavily on entity names, domains and areas. Below you will find tips for tweaking these things to ensure the best experience. On top of exposing the needed data, it is worth noting that you will most likely target entities through areas and floors, like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assist relies heavily on entity names, domains, and areas. Below you will find tips for tweaking these things to ensure the best experience. On top of exposing the needed data, it is worth noting that you will most likely target entities through areas and floors, like:
```

- *Turn off the office lights*

So make sure your devices and entities are correctly assigned to areas, and your areas are correctly assigned to floors.
Learn how [here](/voice_control/assign_areas_floors/).

Not having good ways to address entities in common speech will greatly hinder your voice experience with Assist. You can expect to have a hard time asking Assist to “turn on Tuya Light Controller 0E54B1 Light 1”. You should therefore name your devices and entities logically, using a schema such as `<area> [<identifier_or_descriptor>] [<domain>].`

For example, `light.living_room_lamp` might be the entity ID of `Living room lamp`. `Kitchen light` would be enough for the `light.kitchen` if you only have one light fixture in that room.

Note that this convention is only a recommendation, actual naming of your devices and entities might depend on your language or personal preference.

> If you ever find yourself mentioning a certain device or entity in a certain way, make sure to add that as an alias, as it would probably be the most natural way to refer to the entity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you ever find yourself mentioning a certain device or entity in a certain way, make sure to [add that as an alias](/voice_control/aliases/), as it would probably be the most natural way to refer to the entity.
```

Names and aliases also apply to `area`, you need to address area names and aliases in the exact same manner as you would for entities.

### Be aware of language specificity 

If you have set up Home Assistant entity names in English but plan to use Assist in another language, don’t worry. You can add aliases to each entity, allowing them to be named in any language.

> English has pretty simple grammar rules, but there are languages where definite articles are pre- or suffixes to words, where nouns have genders or numbers. Language leaders are making efforts to support most such declinations in each language, but they can’t control the stuff that you name. So try to think whether a certain entity having an unarticled name would be called out in a sentence requiring a definite article or viceversa. If so, add that version of the name as an alias as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
English has pretty simple grammar rules, but there are languages where definite articles are pre- or suffixes to words and where nouns have genders or numbers. Language leaders are making efforts to support most such declinations in each language, but they can’t control the stuff that you name. So try to think whether a certain entity having an unarticled name would be called out in a sentence requiring a definite article or vice versa. If so, add that version of the name as an alias as well.
```

### Check domains and device classes 

> Assist leverages domains to define the proper verbs for the action being taken (e.g. turning on/off a `light` or a `fan`, opening/closing a `cover` with a `door` `device_class`, opening/closing a `valve`, locking/unlocking a `lock` etc.).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assist leverages domains to define the proper verbs for the action being taken (for example, turning on/off a `light`, or a `fan`, opening/closing a `cover` with a `door` `device_class`, opening/closing a `valve` or locking/unlocking a `lock`.).
```
We use __for example__ or __such as__ instead of [e.g.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/e/eg)

It might not bother anyone to have a `switch.main`_valve in the UI instead of a valve, but you can’t ask Assist to open the main valve if the main valve is a switch. If it was a `valve.main_valve`, then the former sentence would have worked without a hitch.

To prevent this, you can use either the [Change device type of a switch integration](/integrations/switch_as_x/) or create virtual entities using [template](/integrations/template/) entities or Generic X (e.g. [generic thermostat](/integrations/generic_thermostat/)).

The same thing applies to some device classes. For example, if you have a `binary_sensor.bedroom_window` with no `device_class` set, you can only ask whether the bedroom window is on, which doesn’t even make sense. To be able to ask if it’s open, you need to set a proper `device_class` to that `binary_sensor`, i.e. window.

> ## Ready?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Ready?

```

Once your devices and entities are correctly 
- Exposed to assist
- Assigned to areas.

It is now time to speak to your device.

> For setting up your device (and have a mic and speaker to execute the voice interaction) you can either have your phone or a custom device. Check here how to do it in [Android](/voice_control/android/) and [Apple](/voice_control/apple/) devices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To talk to Assist, you can either use your phone or a custom device (and use their microphone and speaker). Check here how to do it on [Android](/voice_control/android/) or [Apple](/voice_control/apple/) devices.
```
Ah, ok. Maybe something like this?

### Some examples to get you started

> There are a few example commands to help you get started in [our Sentences Starter Pack](/voice_control/builtin_sentences/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are a few example commands to help you get started in [our Sentences starter pack](/voice_control/builtin_sentences/).
```
we use [sentence style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/text-formatting/using-type/use-sentence-style-capitalization) also for headings

> For setting up your device (and have a mic and speaker to execute the voice interaction) you can either have your phone or a custom device. Check here how to do it in [Android](/voice_control/android/) and [Apple](/voice_control/apple/) devices.

Reviewer 3: what is meant by "your device" here? Assist?

Author: the hardware you would be using for talking to/from Assist. Its true if could use a better phrasing though
